Now we will actually containerized our system, so we will start with that application.
And then one by one with each component, we will containerized them.
So let's first start with that application.
Now, in order to containerised our web application, what we will have to do is we will have to take
a Linux image.
In this case, we will take Ubuntu Linux image Docker image.
So that will form the base image.
On that base image, we will install the required software.
In this case, it is by 10 engine.
Once we are done installing the required software, then we will deploy it by then build on that.
So we will copy the Python archive that we have.
We will deploy it.
So once we do all that, that will create a Docker image, and that Docker image can be used to run
as a double container.
And this Docker container will be our web application.
So that's how we are going to do it.
So once we see how actually it works, it will become more clear.
So let's go ahead and actually create this web application container.
For that, we will go to the cloud machine where we have our big.
We will connect to this machine.
Now that we are connected to the very machine.
Let's check out Variabilities, so let's first go to the project directly and there for web application,
we will go into web directly.
So let's list all the files that are there.
So this is be evaluated or tarred or GZ.
It's a gun zip file.
So we have created a zip file of the entire python application.
So this is what we are calling as Python.
And this is what we need to deploy on a Docker container image.
Now, one more thing that we need before we do that is whether the Docker is installed on this machine,
so Docker is not installed.
So if I do Docker, it says that the command not found, which pretty much means that Docker is not
installed, so we need to install Docker.
So for that, we will go into a project group directly there.
We will go into Ben directly and then we have a script called Install Docker Datasets.
We will make use of this script to install Docker.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So the installation has started, this installation will take some time.
So in the meantime, we're going to positively do deal and come back once it is done.
OK, so Dzhokhar is in store.
Let's just check.
OK, so Docker command is recognized now.
Now what we can do is we can check what images are there on our system right now.
So the only image that we have on our system is Hello World image and that God downloaded as part of
Docker installation itself.
So this is where this Hello World image was downloaded as part of the Docker installation, so I don't
think that we don't have any images.
So these images, they are very much like.
What of machinery is just in case you haven't used before?
The only difference is these are very lightweight images.
So there are, of course, many differences.
But David, the best way to imagine the difference is that this is a lightweight virtual machine image.
OK, so now our doctor is installed and we are ready to create our replication image, which we will
use to create the web application container.
So let's go ahead and do that.
For that, we will go to Docker directly in Project through directly there.
Inside that, we will go to web directly where we have all the necessary configuration that is required
to create a Docker image for that application.
So the important file that we need over here is this Docker file.
So let's open this and understand what is there in this Docker file.
OK, so the first statement, the configuration statement over here it is from Ubuntu, which means
start from the base Ubuntu Linux image because we have not specified any version over here.
So this will actually download the latest Ubuntu image.
So this is where we are right now.
This statement will download this Docker Linux image of Ubuntu flavor and latest version.
Then we can ignore these installation of utility tools.
So here whatever you normally do on a machine to prepare it to run software.
So let's say we have a machine and on which we want to run by then applications.
So on that machine, we'll have to install certain software so we will run certain commands to execute,
to install that software and same thing we are doing over here.
We are running those Linux commands that will install this software so that these Linux command, I
said we can ignore them because they are not installing anything that we really need to execute our
application.
These are general networking tools, sometimes useful in case you are debugging why you are not able
to connect something, or let's say there is a steep incline to do some local testing.
So for our current purpose, we can ignore them.
Then the next statement is run and this will run the APT Get update and install Python three.
So this is these are Linux commands to execute a software.
In this case, we are installing Python and run is how you say in Docker file configuration that you
are supposed to run this particular command.
Similarly, we will install certain other Python packages that we need while we are running out of our
application.
Then other things that we are doing over here is that we have created a directory Meridia this BYU a
directory.
We have created this directory because here we are going to deploy our by 10 boot.
The next important thing that we are doing over here to which we need to pay attention is this copy
command.
So copy command, what it will do is from the current directory where we are in right now, let's have.
And while we are creating an image, we will give that command the context directly so that starting
from that context directly, it will look for image directly and in that image directly.
This command expects Python Archive to be dead.
So this is where we will start by then archive from there.
This command will copy this by it, and I go in to the directory that we just created over here.
So that is how we copy any file from our local machine to Docker image so that that's how we do it.
And if we are to run any command, then we can just use this run command of Docker file and then we
can run Docker command in front of that.
The next important thing that we are doing over here is this command that you see over here.
Now, once an image just launched, it is supposed to run a software.
So how do we run that software?
There are two ways of doing it.
One is using Docker and three point configuration.
Docker entry point configuration will point to a script.
You will see that in some other configuration.
In this web application configuration, we do not have that, but that's fine.
We will see it later.
We just need to remember that that is one way of starting an application in a Docker container when
we launch that image as a container.
So the Docker entry point takes a script as an argument.
So in that script as what Docker container will launch, the other way is that we can give it a barometer,
a command that it can launch so that command.
What we have given over here is that use Guinea gone to launch this Python application, bind it with
certain ports and with three workers.
So this is a standard way of.
Launching a python application using Unicode, so we have used that because that is what we will need
in the production bug when we launch our application for development purpose.
So let's say right now we are going to do this later on, we will use this unicorn, but for now, we
are not going to use it.
So the way we are going, so what we are going to do is we will provide a configuration to override
this command.
So if we supply any parameters to Docker image while we are running it as a container, it will override
So this is something that you can look more by reading Docker documentation, or you can see various
configurations that are there that we have done for various components.
And that will give give you a very good idea of how Docker configuration is done and how images are
launched to run a particular software.
So you can take a look at that right now.
We will just move on.
So this is how our Docker configuration is.
So this this has all the information to create a Docker image.
Now, one dependency over here is that there'd be said that we are going to deploy the Python archive
on this Docker image.
So where are we going to pick it from?
We saw that in the Docker file that it is expecting to pick it up from this image directly.
So this image directly could have had any name.
We have given it name of image.
You can give it anything else, but we have to give it.
Give the part of that file that we will copy.
We have created directly because we can put many other files in just one directly just for the management
purpose.
So this is precisely the directory that we have created over here.
Image we could have created any other directory or we could have just put this stuff in the current
directly itself.
So let's go ahead and create Docker image now.
For that, we will use this particular command dock at bay minus F DocuSign minus D.
Indeed, a blue web dot.
Now let me explain you this object so docker built here, billed as the command and we are instructing
it to pick up Docker file by default.
This command will pick up a file configuration file with the name Docker file, but let's say you have
given this file some other name, then you can use minus have option.
And then we are saying that whatever image you create using this Docker file tagged with this particular
name.
So we have given some unique name to this component and the last bit, as we are saying that this has
the context directly so that this context directly becomes important when we are copying any file from
the localhost.
So in this case, let's say it is the host, and from this image directory, we are going to copy Python
Argo, which we haven't copied over here, so we are going to copy it now.
So for that purpose, that DOD directory is given, that is the context directly.
So let's first copy the Python archive over here.
Otherwise this will give an error.
So it is there in there directly.
So now let's copy this to image.
OK, so the file is copied now we are really ready to run this particular baby.
Come on.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I have not specified minus have Docker file option because by default, it will pick up Docker file
only.
So let's go ahead and run this OK?
The context out of two is missing, so here is the context directly.
So this is the first time we're are running Docker on this particular machine, so first thing that
it is going to do is it is going to download this Ubuntu image and then it will install the Python libraries
that we have mentioned in our Docker file.
So this is going to take some time.
We are going to pause the video here and come back once it is done.
OK, so Docker image is built.
Let's verify that, let me clear this.
Let's run this command called Docker Images.
This will list all the images that are there to be downloaded.
You want to image, right?
Because that's the best image for our web application and this is the image that we wanted to build.
This is our web application image.
Now that image is ready, the next thing that we are going to do is we are going to run this as a container.
So for running this as a container, we will use Docker run command.
This command takes some parameters while explaining those parameters of minus details, ransacking detachment
and the container that will run it will be given a name there, and you will see that this name is useful.
Whenever you want to interact with our container, we will use this name.
Then the other barometer that we have given is that it should use the host network now host network
is not something that we are going to use going forward.
But for now, for keeping it simple in the beginning, we are using this network more as host.
So this will use the host machine network.
The last parameter that is dead is the image name or the image tag.
So once we supply all these parameters, this will run this particular image in this particular network
and it will it will give this container a name as that.
So let's go ahead and actually run this.
OK, so it has started a candidate, and this is the container ID.
So let's go ahead and check the logs that are generated for this particular container that we can do
as Docker logs miners have.
And we can give the name of the container, which is where.
So these are the log statements on a study out of Argentina, and this densest, as are container is
running, there is absolutely no problem.
We are not seeing any error message.
So our container is running.
Other thing that we can do to make sure that the container is running, we can do Docker piece so it
will list all the processes that are running.
And it says that there's a container of so insularity with this image and this particular name is running,
and that particular image used this particular command to start an application.
OK, so that means our web application container is running.
Now we will interact with this web application container as if we are interacting with our application.
So let's go ahead and do a small test to make sure that this is this our web application is indeed running.
So we will use this command line utility called.
It's initially typically available on Line X maquilas.
It's a pretty useful comment on Windows, if you might have used postmen.
That said, Dubai-based as jetpack later, this is also something like that.
Now we will use Google to send an initiative request to our web application.
So our web application is located on this localhost because we are using hostname to it.
Remember, we give this parameter minus minus networkers minus minus network as host.
So there's a using host network so we can use localhost for communicating with that container.
So then the I'm not sure what happened over here.
I'll just type it all over again.
Cool.
Port Numbers year 2000.
So let's run this.
So this has given us.
Some HTML file over here.
So it has printed that Steve will file on the console.
So which means that our web application is returning back and as HTML file, which means Iris Dement
is our web application is indeed running.
We can do a dunsmore test.
We can check its heartbeat.
So we have implemented a are oral status on our web application.
This should give us some response.
So it has given us some response.
It does basically it saying that the responses coming from host instance one, which is basically this
will be reversed and the time of response it is giving.
So that means our web application is running perfectly fine.
So are one component is already running fine.
Similarly, we can launch other containers.
But before we do that, we will solve one little problem that we have to remember all these commands
and these commands can become even more complex when we use more options.
So we are going to simplify this by using Docker compose.
So very soon we are going to go to Docker compose and see how we can make this a little more easier
for us.
But before we go there, let me also show you a useful command, a useful command that you can Docker
command that you can execute to understand what is going on in Docker container so you can actually
connect to that Docker container.
Go inside that and see what filesystem is there, what finds are there and what processes are running
inside that container.
And we can do that using this Docker exact command.
So Docker exec commands takes the name of a candidate and it takes the name of a command that you want
to execute on that container.
So you can give it any command in case you give it a shell.
Then it will execute that shell on that particular container and that shell can take more commands from
us.
So we are going to use this particular combination of exec and a shell command as parameter to inspect
what is going on inside a container.
And that will give you a very good feel of what a Docker container is.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let me clear this.
OK, so let's connect the container Docker exact mine as it.
It is basically as a barometer to say that it is interactive.
So Docker exec minus 80 and then we will give the name of the container that is running and then we
will give the name of the command that we want to execute.
Once we do that, it has connected to a container, and that container, it seems, has got the name
in the stands, one because it is using the network mode as host, so it is using host networks or it
is giving us the name of that machine only the host machine itself, but we are really connected to
the Docker container.
The other sign of that is that we are connected as a route user over here for certain images.
We do not want to be rude, but for our purpose.
Generally, it is fine to operate as good.
It's a security risk, but we are doing this.
We're learning right now.
So we'll go ahead as a rule.
There is absolutely no problem in that for learning purposes.
So we are connected to our container.
We can see what processes are running inside the container.
We can execute any command inside this container.
We can go to the Java directly.
We like the this is very much like we have.
We are connected to another machine.
So we were as it is through this terminal, we were connected to our cloud machine.
All right.
So does the machine that we were connected to on this machine.
We launched a container.
And now we are connected to that container as if we are connected to a machine.
So they said this is why I said that this is very much like a virtual machine in that sense.
So now let's come out of this at any point in time, you'll want to know whether your software is installed
perfectly.
Things are fine on your image.
You can actually launch an image as a container.
You can connect to it and you can find out if things are fine.
So let's say if I want to see a better Python three is available over here, which we installed.
So Python three is available, you can even take commands from us.
So that's the way you can debug an image.
So we are going to come out of it.
Let's exit.
OK, so we are back to our host machine.
And we are done with the creation of verb application as a container, and now we have even run the
application as a container.
Now the next thing that we are going to do is we are going to run this using Docker compose utility.